# Risk Assessment Report

1. Results of risk assessment should indicate gaps between the current risk state and desired state.
2. Risk assessment report should provide management documentationof risks along with the recommendations for addressing any outstanding risk issues
	1. Justifiable and linked with results of the risk assessment
	2. Document process used and results of the risk assessment. 
	3. State risk levels and priorities
3. Each risk must be linked to an ownser
	1.  Make decisions on the best response to the identified risk.
4. Owner must be at a level in the organization where they can make the necessary decisions and can be accountable.
5. Ownership with an individual is needed for accountability. 

## IT Risk Assessment Report

1. Objectives of the risk assessment process
2. Scope and description of the area subject to assessment
3. External context and factors affecting risk
4. Internal factors or limitations affecting risk assessment
5. Risk assessment criteria
6. Risk assessment methodology used
7. Resources and references used
8. Identification of risk, threats and vulnerabilities
9. Assumptions used in the risk management
10. Potential of unknown factors affecting assessment. 
11. Results of Risk Assessment
12. Recommendation and Conclusions.

## Communicating the IT Risk Assessment Results
1. The results of the risk assessment should be compiled into a report to senior management
2. The report should list all risk (Risk Register) along with severity and ownser
3. Provide recommendations on what action to take.


 