# 5.1 Risk Mitigation Reduction

Management is responsbile for evaluating and responding to the recommendations included in the risk report provided following risk assessment. 

## Risk Mitigation
Risk Mitigation means that action is taken to reduce the frequency of the risk. It might require the use of several controls until it reaches levels of risk acceptance or tolerance.

- Strengthning overall risk management practices 
- Developing an effective indicent response and BCP
- Using compensating controls
- Installing a new access control system etc. 

## Risk Avoidance
Risk Avoidance means exiting the activies or conditions that give rise to risk. It applies when no other risk response is adequate.

- Relocating a data center away from a region with significant natural hazards.
- Declining to engage in a very large project when the business shows a notable risk of failure.
- Deciding not to use a certain technology or software package becase it would prevent future expansion.

## Risk Transfer/Sharing
Risk transfer is a decision to reduce the loss through sharing the risk of loss with other organization.

Partnerships with another organization are an example. 

The decision should be reviewed on a regular basis.

## Risk Acceptance
A conscious decision made by senior managemenr to recognize the existence of risk and knowingly decide to allow the ris to remain without further mitifation. 

`
Management is responsible for impact of the risk event.
`

Defined as the amount of risk that senior management has determined is within the acceptable or permissible bounds.

Not the same as risk ignorance/rejection, which is the failure to identify or acknowledge risk.

`
Risk Tolerance is an exception when senior management decides to exceed risk acceptance levels.
`