# 5.20 Policies, Procedures, Standards, and Guidelines

## 1. Policies
A set of policies and principles, formulated or adopted by an organization to reach its strategic goals and typically published in a booklet or other form that is widely accessbile. 

Polices are generic! 

Policies are designed to influence and determine all major decisions and actions, and all activites take place within the boundaries set by them.

There are three types of policies exists.

1. **Corporate Policy**
	1. Blue print for the whole organization security programs. Is is the strategic plan implementing security in the organization.
2. **System-Specific Policy**
	1.  It is concerned with a specific id individual computer system. It is meant to present the approved software, hardware, and hardening methods for that specific system.
3.** Issue Specific Policy**
	1.  It is concerned with a certain functional aspect that may require more attentions.
	2.  A separate policy is prepared for that issue to explain with details the required level of security and instructions that all staff in the organization must abide by to achieve this level.

## 2. Standards

- Mandatory
- Created to support policy, while providing more specific detaiils
- Reinforces policy and provides direction
- Can be internal or external


## 3. Procedures

- Mandatory
- Step by step directives on how to accomplish an end result
- Details the "HOW TO" of meeting the policy, standards and guidelines.

## 4. Guidelines

- Not Mandatory
- Suggestive in Nature
- Recommended actions and guides to users
- Best Practices

## 5. Baselines

- Minimum Acceptable Security Configuration
- Mandatory
- The purpose of security classification is to determine and assign the necessary baseline configurations to protect the data.


 
