# 6.1 Risk, Control Monitoring, and Reporting


- A risk response is designed and implemented based on a risk assessment that was conducted at a single point of time. 
- Because of the changing nature of risk and associated controls, ongoing monitoring is an essential step of the risk management lifecycle. 
	- Controls can become less effective.
	- The operational environment may change.
	- New threats, technologues and vulnerabilities may emerge.


## Monitoring Controls
- The purpose of the control monitoring is to verify whether the control is effectively addressing the risk.
- The purpose of risk monitoring is to collect, validate and enaluate goals and metrics, to monitor that processess are performing as expected, and to provide reporting.
- Monitoring may be done through self-assessment ot independent assurance reviews.
- The risk practioner should encourage management and process owners to positive ownership of control improvement.

## Steps To Monitoring Controls 
- Identofy and confirm risk control owners and stakeholders.
- Engage with stakeholders and communicate the risk and information security requirements and objectives for monitoring and reporting.
- Align and continually maintain the information security
	- Monitoring and evaluatin approach with the IT and enterprise approaches.
	- Establish the information security monitoring process and procedure.
	- Agree on a life cycle management and change control process for information security monitoring and reporting.
	- Request, prioritize and allocate resources for monitoring information security.

## Results of Control Assessments
The effectiveness of control monitoring is dependent on the
- **Timelines of the reporting** - Are data recevied in time to take corrective actions?
- **Skill of data analyst** - Does the analyst have the skills to properly evaluate the controls?
- **Quality of monitoring data available** - Are the monitoring data accurate and complete?
- ** Quality of data to be analyzed** - Can the risk practioner find the important data in the midst of all the other log data available?

